ConvergenceOS

0.  Disclaimer

ConvergenceOS is not affiliated with Valve, Steam, Ubuntu, or Linux Mint in any
way.  

1.  Overview

ConvergenceOS is a post-installer to turn a vanilla Ubuntu or Linux Mint into a 
SteamOS(R)-like PC-based video game console, with the option to install
secondary home-server functionality in the same manner you would do with either
Ubuntu or Linux Mint.

Advantages of using ConvergenceOS include:

 - full, modern, and up-to-date package ecosystems from the Ubuntu package
   ecosystem; allows the user to easily install non-gaming functionality such
   as home theater PC software, home SMB shares, etc.

 - user control over drivers and versions, using standard driver management 
   tools and repositories

Please note that proprietary SteamOS(R) components are NOT redistributed with 
this program.  They are installed by retrieving them from Valve's SteamOS
repository.  Therefore an internet connection is absolutely necessary.

2.  Installing

When installing ConvergenceOS, please first install a fresh "vanilla" 
Ubuntu 18.04 or Linux Mint/Cinnamon 19 64 bit distribution on your machine.  
Installing this on top of systems that you have already been running hasn't been
tested, and is discouraged for that reason.

After installing a supported Linux distro, clone the ConvergenceOS repository
into your home directory.  Enter the ConvergenceOS folder and type:

./build_convergence.sh

as the unpriviliged desktop user.  Do not start the program with administrator
privileges - you will be asked for your administrator password later.

The program will configure your system to boot directly the Steam(R) Big Picture
interface, as well as create some desktop icons that will allow you to manage
your Steam(R) session.

After installing Steam(R), the program will check your drivers, and install
additional components as needed.

3.  Using the System

After installation, the system should boot into the Steam (R) Big Picture 
interface.

From there, you can enable the Linux desktop in the settings to access your
desktop.

In the desktop interface you will have two icons to manage your desktop and
Steam(R) sessions:

 - Return to SteamOS:  will exit your desktop session, and return you to the
   Steam(R) Big Picture interface

 - Steam Desktop Client:  will terminate the running SteamOS session, and start
   the Steam(R) Desktop Client as the "steam" user (rather than the desktop 
   user).  This will allow you to administer your SteamOS(R) session in ways
   not available with the Big Picture interface, including:

        > choosing an alternate Steam(R) game folder; for example you could boot
          from an SSD, and mount a large mechanical HDD to a folder, and use
          that for game storage (this also isolates your game folder from OS
          re-installation)

        > choosing SteamPlay(R) Proton versions, enabling non-whitelisted games
          if desired

        > set game launcher args using the Steam(R) desktop client to enable
          special functionality, or to allow the user to configure per-game
          workaround args

        > and so on and so forth

4.  Future Goals

Eventually have a controller-friendly video game console-like greeter program 
that will allow the user to laucher game stores other than Steam.  Also move the
desktop administrator launcher to the greeter to perform home server and other
administrative tasks.



